.TH WAYLAUNCH 1 "July 2026" "waylaunch 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
waylaunch \- Wayland-native launcher
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B waylaunch
[\fB\-c\fR \fIconfig\fR] [\fB\-q\fR \fIquery\fR] [\fB\-\-debug\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
waylaunch is a minimal, fast, keyboard-first Wayland-native launcher.
When invoked, it opens an overlay panel (via wlr-layer-shell) :
start typing and results from applications, files, the calculator, and 
custom commands appear together, grouped and ranked.
.PP
The panel features client-side frosted-glass blur (glassmorphism)
using wlr-screencopy, a two-column layout with a preview pane, and
full keyboard navigation.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fIpath\fR
Path to the TOML configuration file. Defaults to
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/waylaunch/config.toml.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-query\fR \fItext\fR
Prefill the search field with the given text.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable verbose debug output on stderr.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the version number and exit.
.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.TP
\fBEscape\fR
Dismiss the launcher.
.TP
\fBReturn\fR
Activate the selected item (launch app, open file, copy calculator
result, run command).
.TP
\fBUp\fR, \fBDown\fR
Navigate through results.
.TP
\fBCtrl+J\fR, \fBCtrl+K\fR
Vim-style navigation (down, up).
.TP
\fBTab\fR
Autocomplete the selected app name into the search field.
.TP
\fBPageUp\fR, \fBPageDown\fR
Jump by one result group.
.TP
\fBHome\fR, \fBEnd\fR
Jump to the first or last result.
.TP
\fBRight-click\fR
Reveal the selected item in the file manager.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION
waylaunch reads a TOML configuration file. The default path is
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/waylaunch/config.toml. A full example with defaults
is installed to $PREFIX/share/waylaunch/waylaunch.toml.
.
.SS [general]
.TP
\fBdebug\fR (bool, default: \fBfalse\fR)
Enable verbose stderr output.
.
.SS [appearance]
.TP
\fBwidth\fR (int, default: \fB720\fR)
Panel width in pixels.
.TP
\fBmargin_top\fR (int, default: \fB150\fR)
Distance from the top of the screen.
.TP
\fBcorner_radius\fR (int, default: \fB16\fR)
Panel corner rounding radius.
.TP
\fBsearch_height\fR (int, default: \fB64\fR)
Search field height.
.TP
\fBrow_height\fR (int, default: \fB56\fR)
Result row height.
.TP
\fBicon_size\fR (int, default: \fB34\fR)
Icon size in pixels.
.TP
\fBlist_width\fR (int, default: \fB402\fR)
Left result column width.
.TP
\fBmax_per_group\fR (int, default: \fB6\fR)
Max results per category.
.TP
\fBblur\fR (string, default: \fB"auto"\fR)
Frosted-glass mode: \fB"auto"\fR, \fB"on"\fR, or \fB"off"\fR.
.TP
\fBpanel_opacity\fR (double, default: \fB0.58\fR)
Panel tint alpha when blurred but no backdrop captured.
.TP
\fBopaque_opacity\fR (double, default: \fB0.96\fR)
Panel alpha when glass is unavailable.
.TP
\fBbackdrop_tint\fR (double, default: \fB0.55\fR)
Darkening overlay alpha over the blurred backdrop.
.
.SS [theme]
.TP
\fBname\fR (string, default: \fB"dark"\fR)
Theme name.
.TP
\fBmode\fR (string, default: \fB"dark"\fR)
Color scheme mode.
.SS [theme.colors]
.TP
\fBbackground\fR (string, default: \fB"#1e1e2e"\fR)
.TP
\fBforeground\fR (string, default: \fB"#cdd6f4"\fR)
.TP
\fBaccent\fR (string, default: \fB"#89b4fa"\fR)
.TP
\fBtext_muted\fR (string, default: \fB"#6c7086"\fR)
.TP
\fBborder\fR (string, default: \fB"#45475a"\fR)
.TP
\fBselection\fR (string, default: \fB"#45475a"\fR)
.TP
\fBerror\fR (string, default: \fB"#f38ba8"\fR)
.SS [theme.input_font]
.TP
\fBfamily\fR (string, default: \fB"Sans"\fR)
.TP
\fBsize\fR (double, default: \fB22.0\fR)
.SS [theme.result_font]
.TP
\fBfamily\fR (string, default: \fB"Sans"\fR)
.TP
\fBsize\fR (double, default: \fB14.0\fR)
.SS [theme.result_detail_font]
.TP
\fBfamily\fR (string, default: \fB"Sans"\fR)
.TP
\fBsize\fR (double, default: \fB11.5\fR)
.
.SS [search]
.TP
\fBplaceholder\fR (string, default: \fB"Search..."\fR)
Placeholder text in the search field.
.TP
\fBshow_icons\fR (bool, default: \fBtrue\fR)
Show icons in results.
.TP
\fBdebounce_ms\fR (int, default: \fB150\fR)
Keystroke debounce in milliseconds.
.TP
\fBmax_results\fR (int, default: \fB20\fR)
Overall result cap.
.TP
\fBapplications\fR (bool, default: \fBtrue\fR)
Enable app search.
.TP
\fBfiles\fR (bool, default: \fBtrue\fR)
Enable file search.
.TP
\fBcalculator\fR (bool, default: \fBtrue\fR)
Enable calculator.
.TP
\fBcommands\fR (bool, default: \fBtrue\fR)
Enable custom commands.
.TP
\fBfile_roots\fR (array, default: \fB["~"]\fR)
Directories to search for files.
.TP
\fBfile_excludes\fR (array)
fd exclude patterns.
.TP
\fBfile_min_query\fR (int, default: \fB2\fR)
Min chars before file search fires.
.TP
\fBmax_file_results\fR (int, default: \fB6\fR)
Max file results kept.
.TP
\fB[[search.paths]]\fR
Desktop file scan locations.
.TP
\fB[[search.file_patterns]]\fR
Icon/label hints for file extensions.
.
.SS [[commands]]
.TP
\fBname\fR (string)
Display name.
.TP
\fBcommand\fR (string)
Shell command to run.
.TP
\fBicon\fR (string)
Freedesktop icon name.
.TP
\fBcategory\fR (string)
Subtitle group label.
.
.SS [platform]
.TP
\fBuse_layer_shell\fR (bool, default: \fBtrue\fR)
Use wlr-layer-shell overlay mode.
.TP
\fBshow_on_all_workspaces\fR (bool, default: \fBtrue\fR)
.TP
\fBnotifications\fR (bool, default: \fBtrue\fR)
.
.SH FILES
.TP
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/waylaunch/config.toml
Default configuration file.
.TP
$PREFIX/share/waylaunch/waylaunch.toml
Installed example config with all defaults documented.
.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
Runtime: wayland-client, wayland-cursor, libxkbcommon, cairo,
pangocairo, fontconfig, gtk+-3.0, gdk-pixbuf-2.0, librsvg-2.0
.PP
Optional: fd (for file search)
.PP
Build: C++20 compiler, CMake 3.20+, pkg-config, wayland-scanner,
wayland-protocols, tomlplusplus, nlohmann-json
.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/yourusername/waylaunch/issues.
.
.SH AUTHORS
Maintained by the waylaunch contributors.
